Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I want to talk to you with you today about
a subject which has been occupying all of our time lately and which is a great interest
to all citizens.
Our referal course to the Civil Rights Philobustry.
The Senate has been debating the subject since February 15th when Senator Lyndon Johnson
of Texas moved to bring up a bill which would permit the people of the little town of Stullam
Zura to use a building at Camp Crowder as a schoolhouse.
Senator Dirkson, the minority leader, then moved to substitute the administration's
Civil Rights Bill for the Stullam Zura Bill.
This in my opinion is a very poor way to legislate, but obviously Senator Johnson felt he had
to make this move because at the last session of Congress, when there were demands for immediate
action on Civil Rights which would have delayed the adjournment of Congress, he gave his assurance
and his worth that a bill would be considered by the middle of February.
Personally, I would much have referred to a late house action on this matter before
beginning Senate debate and I so stated this on the floor of the Senate.
This week the first move occurred to apply a flat floture to the Senate debate, that
is to cut it off after some other limited debate.
A floture petition signed by 31 senators as filed and came to vote on Thursday.
I voted against it because I think flotures should be used only in very rare conditions.
And I do not think this matter has been sufficiently debated.
There has been more confusion than light shed on the issue thus far in my opinion.
Furthermore, here I would oppose floture because we have not yet reached a point where
we can clearly see just what kind of final bill will come before us.
This week the house began to debate on its own Civil Rights Bill.
Here Sam Raybrin, the leader expects the house to finish by Wednesday of next week.
The house bill is much more moderate than the Durkson administration bill and has been
my opinion all along that the Senate will not act until the house measure was before it.
I have had letters from some of my friends in Tennessee asking why I have not joined in
the President of the Fillebustry.
The answer which I have given to them and which I will give to you is of two parts.
As the Fillebustry is designed not to be a full debate which I favor on all issues,
but rather to prevent the Senate from ever reaching a vote on particular legislation.
I think that democracy will not long survive unless eventually a legislative body is able
to act.
Otherwise, the whole legislative process may break down and we will not even be able to
deal with emergency situations affecting the safety of the nation.
From second, I favor three proposals contained in the Senate bill and expect a vote for them.
These are the proposals to help all qualified voters regardless of race or color, secure
the right to vote.
The so-called anti-bomb legislation designed to punish persons who would bomb property,
especially schools and churches.
And the proposal to authorize the federal government to provide schools for service personnel
children stationed in states where the local schools might be closed.
I think the vast majority of Tennesseans are for these proposals and would not want me
to fill the buster against them.
They are basically right and therefore should be enacted into law.
Well, there are many other amendments about five pounds of them up on the floor for consideration.
And I shall vote against many of these.
I think that I'm in a stronger position than some of those who oppose all measures because
I have tried to show that I am reasonable.
I have not filled the buster and I have voted for the extension of the Civil Rights Commission.
On the ground if they should be studied much more, I can now urge against hasty action
because they have not been adequately studied.
It was because I had tried to show that I was reasonable, that I was able to draft and
have accepted the amendment to the 1957 Act, which separated civil from criminal contempt.
I made it possible to give jury trials and criminal contempt cases.
That I think is the kind of representation the vast majority of Tennesseans want from
their senators.
I believe that in the final analysis a moderate bill which we can all live with and which
would be beneficial to both Tennessean and the nation will be the result.
And I shall certainly to vote my efforts toward that end.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.